## Resolução

**1.** b) In the growing 60's, to address the growing importance of software

**Justificação:** Software was becoming a more and more important tool. However, it didn't have a proper set of "rules" or good practices that could be applied and software development was a very complicated process, which led to a lot of problems during development, that resulted in a lot of money lost. All this led to the famous NATO conference that establish software engineering, where the term was first used and defined. 

**2.** d) All of the above

**Justificação:** All projects should have a prototype, an initial version of a system that shows how the final result will be, so it can help verifying requirements already implemented and others that can be implemented in final version. As it is an initial version, with some restrictions and low costs, the developers don't lose too much time developing this prototypes as they spend on final product.

**3.** b) Adopt test-driven development and pair programming

**Justificação:** An Agile implementation of RUP should take in count some of the specifications of this process. As test-driven-development is one of this characteristics, this implementation should include that. Pair programming is another Agile characteristic that should be adopted. Pair programming is the activity of two people programming in the same computer: while one writes the code, the other analyses that and criticizes, in order to have a better code in the final. Iterations of an Agile method should be short and it is possible change requirements during the project.

**4.** c) One developer working on a feature, while being continuously reviewed by another, often trading their roles

**Justificação:** As stated above, pair programming is a software development practice, where two developers work with only one computer, trying to minimize human error, increase productivity and maximize code-base knowledge.

**5.** a) The whole team;

**Justificação:** User stories should be written by all team in order to all team members work together and know better project specifications and functionalities. 
An example of a user story is: As a vacation traveler, I want to see photos of the hotels.

**6.** c) so that only one team member is needed for each user story

**Justificação:** The project and each feature should be developed by all team in order to reduce the errors. So, attribute a user story to only one team member is not one of small user stories objectives.

**7.** c) Represent mandatory behavior

**Justificação:** Include relationships are used when many use cases share some common behavior. That common behavior can be separated and described in a new use case which is included by the first ones. Inclusion is mandatory.

**8.** a) It is illegal to build and sell software that reuses open-source libraries.

**Justificação:** It is possible to build and sell software that reuses open-source components. Depending on the license that the software is published, the users have different rights and duties. For example, using a GNU GPL license, to share software based on this license, it's mandatory that it is distributed using the same license.

**9.** d) to recognize and positively discriminate individuals based on their individual performance

**Justificação:** Recognize individual work tends to make each developer to work alone ("Heroic development"), which makes the projects depending on each member performance, growing up the number of errors on project.

**10.** b) Restarting the whole software system from scratch

**Justificação:** Adding new features to the project, as said in a), is a type of software maintenance. Adapt software to new operating environment is another type of software maintenance. Correct software bugs and vulnerabilities is another way to maintain software. So, we can conclude that option b) isn't a type of software maintenance, as make a new software from scratch doesn't take in count the previous software.

